== Design for Confirmation of Customer Registration

Customers are identified by their email addresses, which are provided at Customer Registration.
To confirm that an email address is valid
and correct, an email will be sent to each new Customer as they register. 
The email will welcome the Customer to the service.
The email will include a link the Customer must follow to complete the Registration.
The link will include a token which must match the token, stored with the Customer record,
that was generated for the email. Tokens will be unique. 
Until the link has been followed, the Customer may not create any Competitions.

=== What's Needed


This enhancement will affect each aspect of the M-V-C framework.

Here's what needs to be added/changed:

==== Customer Model
A string column needs to be added to the model to hold the confirmation token.

==== Customer Emailer and Customer Emailer Views
The Welcome emailer and the two (html and text) Welcome email views need 
to be changed to include a link and instructions to the Customer that they
must follow the link to complete their Registration.

==== Customers Controller
This is where the bulk of the changes need to be made.

* 

==== Customer Views


=== Tests

*  Public Display Viewers - These are 
*  Customers - Customers are the owners of Competitions and, as such, can create a Competition
   and once a Competition is created, the owner can do anything to the Competition,
   including setting or changing a password to limit Manager access and
   setting or changing a password to limit Scorer access.

